# Reading Assignment 10

## [MDN Docs: The Call Stack](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Glossary/Call_stack)

**Call Stack**:

- When a script calls a function, the interpreter adds it to the call stack and then starts carrying out the function.
- Any functions that are called by that function are added to the call stack further up, and run where their calls are reached.
- When the current function is finished, the interpreter takes it off the stack and resumes execution where it left off in teh last code listing.
- If the stack takes up more space than it had assigned to it, it results in a "stack overflow" error.

## [The JavaScript Call Stack - What It Is and Why It's Necessary](https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/understanding-the-javascript-call-stack-861e41ae61d4/)

- The call stack is primarily used for function invocation (call). Since the call stack is single, function(s) execution, is done, one at a time, from top to bottom (call stack is synchronous)

- **In Asynchronous JavaScript**: a callback function, an event loop, and a task queue.
- callback function is acted upon by the call stack during execution after the call back function has been pushed to the stack by the event loop

### What causes a stack overflow?

- when there's a recursive function (a function that calls itself) without an exit point. Once the browser's maximum stack call is reached, it will throw a stack error.

```
function callMyself() {
  callMyself();
}

callMyself();
```

The infinite loop created above will throw a stack error.

### Takeaways

- The call stack is single-threaded (can only do one thing at a time)
- Code execution is synchronous
- A function invocation creates a stack frame that occupies a temporary memory
- It works as a **LIFO** - **L**ast **I**n, **F**irst **O**ut data structure.

## [JavaScript Error Messages and Debugging](https://codeburst.io/javascript-error-messages-debugging-d23f84f0ae7c)

### Types of error messages

#### Reference errors

```
console.log(banana) // Uncaught ReferenceError: banana is not defined
let banana;
```

- you need to declare the object before it is used/called/invoked

#### Syntax errors

```
JSON.parse( {'banana': 'potato'} ) // Uncaught SyntaxError: Unexpected token a in JSON at position 1
```

- This is not proper JSON syntax. Keys and values  must be in double quotes, and the object `{}` needs to be surrounded in single quotes.

#### Range errors

```
const fruit = ['apples', 'bananas', 'grapes'];
const whatIsThis = fruit[3];
```

The above example will throw a range error because `fruit[3]` is trying to grab the 4th object in an array that only has 3 objects (index counts start at `0`)

#### Type errors

- this type of error shows up when the types you are trying to use or access are incompatible

### Debugging

- the easiest way: `console.log()`

- using breakpoints

### Call stack

- add names to your functions whenever possible so that the call stack is more readable without having to dive into each step: `console.trace()`

### Handling errors

```
(function testing(){
  function add(a, b) {
    try {
      var result = a + b;
      return result.split('');
    } catch (error) {
      console.error('add wnet wrong ->', error);
      return []; // default value
    }
  }

  var stringResult = add("1", "2")
  var numberResult = add(1, 2)
})()
```

- This will make your error message show up slightly different and isntead of a console.error you could have some kind of logging system so you can check your client errors and fix them without waiting for a report.

### Tools to avoid runtime errors

- [quokka](https://quokkajs.com/) to evaluate your code as you type
- [eslint](http://eslint.org/) to maek sure your style guide is consistency and it will grab you an error or two along the way
- [TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/) - **Note**: libraries are not useful when starting out learning

## Other Resources

- [MDN Docs: JavaScript error reference](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Errors)

### [Back to home](https://dcalhoun286.github.io/reading-notes/)
