# Reading Assignment - Class 14

## Preview - Preparation Materials

### [AWS SNS and SQS](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mXk0MNjlO7A)

- Simple Notification Service (SNS)
  - Publisher/Subscriber System
    - Can delivery to many subscribers of different types
  - When to use
    - If multiple systems care about knowing an event has occurred, even if these systems handle the same event in different ways
      - e.g., a transaction has been approved
  - Good to couple with other (SQS) services, as process will have to be repeated if this method fails
- Simple Queue Service (SQS)
  - Queueing service for message processing
    - system must poll the queue to discover new events
    - messages typically processed by a single consumer
  - When to use
    - If your system is the receiver of data that needs to be analyzed or processed, and then this data needs to be deleted
      - E.g., if an attempted transaction triggers fraud detection algorithms and further queries need to be made

## Review, Research, and Discussion

### Document the following vocabulary terms

- **FIFO Queue**: FIFO stands for First In, First Out. This is a term for a method that maintains a sequence order in which objects will leave a queue in the same order in which they entered the queue.
- **Pub/Sub**: Pub/Sub refers to Publisher/Subscriber System. This is beneficial for cases in which multiple entities care about knowing when a particular event has occurred and need to listen for its happening. These different entities don't necessarily handle the event the same way once it has been triggered/received on their end.

### Answer the following prompts and cite any external sources

- **What's the difference between a FIFO and a standard queue?**
  - FIFO has the added benefit of ensuring something is handled only one time and in the correct sequence. However, the amount of processes (from entry into the queue to deletion) is less capacity than a standard queue.
    - **Resource**: [aws.amazon.com](https://aws.amazon.com/about-aws/whats-new/2016/11/amazon-sqs-introduces-fifo-queues-with-exactly-once-processing-and-lower-prices-for-standard-queues/#:~:text=FIFO%20queues%20have%20essentially%20the,being%20received%20by%20message%20consumers.)
- **How can the server be assured a message was properly received?**
  - The server could expect (in the form of an event listener) for the recipient of the message to emit an event that confirms receipt of message.
- **What classic design pattern is best represented by event driven programming?**
  - Event-driven architecture -- three key components: event producers, event routers, and event consumers
    - applications that aren't directly linked to one another can communicate effectively with this method
    - **Resource**: [aws.amazon.com](https://aws.amazon.com/event-driven-architecture/)
- **How do you test an event driven system?**
  - A good way to test an event driven system is to utilize a spy with `jest` and, depending on the circumstances, ensure that your unit tests are written with asynchronous functions. If this spy is triggered, the unit test will pass.
    - **Resource**: [jestjs.io](https://jestjs.io/docs/mock-function-api)

### [Back to home](https://dcalhoun286.github.io/reading-notes/)
