# Reading Assignment 03

## Review, Research, and Discussion

1. **Name 3 real world use cases where you'd want to change the request with custom middleware**

- using middleware to log route queries in the console
- using middleware to authenticate a user's access
- using middleware to retrieve information stored in the database

2. **True or false: The route handler is middleware?**

- This is false. A route handler is the piece of code that makes an HTTP request, such as `GET`, `POST`, `PUT`, and `DELETE`

3. **In what ways can a middleware function end the process and send data to the browser?**

- Middleware functions are not supposed to end the process. They use a method called `next()` which passes things off to the next middleware in the chain. Also, middleware in and of itself does not send data to the browser. However, when the browser (the client) makes a request to the server, the middleware will modify what the response data will look like.

4. **At what point in the request lifecycle can you "inject" middleware?**

- When an HTTP request is made, the middleware should be listed after the route being requested, but before the callback. Example below:

```javascript

// if logger middleware were used
app.get('/', logger, (req, res) => {
  let outputObject = {
    route: 'homepage',
  };
  res.status(200).send(outputObject);
})
```

- Alternatively, if you know that you will use a middleware function for every route, instead of incorporating it in every HTTP request, you can simply write `app.use(logger)` instead. Doing this will make your middleware an **application middleware**.

5. **What can cause express to error with "Request headers sent twice, cannot start a second response"?**

- One way to cause this to happen is if you are calling a callback more than one time.
- Another way to cause this is by throwing an error after the response body was already formed
- [Resource: Stack Overflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/7042340/error-cant-set-headers-after-they-are-sent-to-the-client)

### Document the following Vocabulary Terms

- **Middleware**:
  - methods placed on HTTP requests to modify what the data will be and/or how it will look like when the server sends the response back to the client
- **Request Object**:
  - an HTTP request. It has properties that can tell the server more information about the request
- **Response Object**:
  - an HTTP response, the properties of which depend on whether or not the HTTP request was successful.
- **Application Middleware**:
  - These are modules/methods accessible to the entire application. They execute whenever an app request is made.
- **Routing Middleware**:
  - Router level middleware. This will be executed each time a request is made to `express.Router()`
- **Test Driven Development**:
  - Unit tests are written for different parts of the application, which are expected to fail. We keep code clean by writing code as simple as possible that will pass the test, and refactoring it to conform to [standards](https://www.agilealliance.org/glossary/rules-of-simplicity/).
- **Behavioral Testing**:
  - Tests are written in a human-readable form and specify components necessary for application to function
    - Resource: [Software Testing Fundamentals](https://softwaretestingfundamentals.com/black-box-testing/)

### [Back to home](https://dcalhoun286.github.io/reading-notes/)
