# Reading Assignment 05

## [Linked Lists](https://codefellows.github.io/common_curriculum/data_structures_and_algorithms/Code_401/class-05/resources/singly_linked_list.html)

### Terminology

1. *Linked List* - A data structure that contains nodes that links/points to the next node in the list.
1. *Singly* - Singly refers to the number of references the node has. A `Singly` linked list means that there is only one reference, and the reference points to the `Next` node in a linked list.
1. *Doubly* - Doubly refers to there being two (double) references within the node. A `Doubly` linked list means that there is a reference to both the `Next` and `Previous` node.
1. *Node* - Nodes are the individual items/links that live in a linked list. Each node contains the data for each link.
1. *Next* - Each node contains a property called `Next`. This property contains the reference to the next node.
1. *Head* - The Head is a reference type of type `Node` to the first node in a linked list.
1. *Current* - The `Current` reference is a reference is a reference type of type `Node` that is currently being looked at. This node is traditionally used when traversing through a full linked list. When traversing, you typically reset the current to the head to guarantee you are starting from the beginning of the linked list.

### Traversal

- best way to approach a traversal is using a `while` loop. Cannot use `foreach` or `for` loops. If you traverse on a node that is `null`, a `NullReferenceException` is thrown, ending/crashing the program.

### Adding a Node

- When making a Linked List, you may want to require that at least one node gets passed upon instantiation. This first node is what your `Head` and `Current` will point to.
- To add a new node with an O(1) efficiency:
  - Set `Current` equal to `Head`
  - Instantiating the new node: values passed into `Add()` defines what the value of the Node will be
  - `newNode.Next` is set to `null` by default; set it to the same location that `Head` is pointing towards.
  - Reassign `Head` to point at `newNode`

## [What's a Linked List, Anyway pt1](https://medium.com/basecs/whats-a-linked-list-anyway-part-1-d8b7e6508b9d)

### Linear data structures

- Linear data structures are like the game Telephone, where everyone takes a turn to pass on the whispered message to the next person until it reaches the end of the line ... it's sequential.
- Non-linear data structures are like trees ... some nodes have multiple connections, and you won't pass through every node until you reach the node with a `null` value

### Memory Allocation

- Arrays are static data structures, meaning all of its resources need to be allocated when the structure is created
- Linked lists are dynamic data structures, and can grow and shrink dynamically as well as change its memory needs

### Parts of a linked list

- A node only knows about what data it contains, and who its neighbor is
- **Circular linked lists**: do not end with a node pointing to a null value. Instead, it has a node that acts as the tail of the list, with the subsequent node being the beginning.

## [What's a Linked List, Anyway pt2](https://medium.com/basecs/whats-a-linked-list-anyway-part-2-131d96f71996)

### What is Big O?

- Big O Notation evaluates the performance of an algorithm: how much time it requires at runtime given how much time and memory it needs.
  - **O(1) functions**: algorithm will always take the same time to run regardless of input size
  - **O(n) functions**: are linear, meaning space and time grows directly proportionate to input
  - **O(n^2) functions**: time and memory requirements grow exponentially with the more elements we have

### To list or not to list?

Arrays versus lists:

- **Arrays** are helpful if you do know the size of the list, you need random ccess to elements, or want to iterate quickly
- **Lists** are helpful if you don't know the size of the list, and mostly want to add or remove things quickly, without random access.

### [Back to home](https://dcalhoun286.github.io/reading-notes/)
