# Reading Assignment 01

## Review, Research, and Discussion

1. **Describe (in plain English) what `array.map()` does**

  `array.map()` is a method that goes through every element within an input array. It performs a function on that element, and outputs the result into a newly created array.

  **Documentation**: [MDN Docs - Array.prototype.map()](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/map)

1. **Describe (in plain English) what `array.reduce()` does**

  `array.reduce()` is a method that performs a function that you designate on every element in an array, provided that an initial value is designated (otherwise, the index starts at 1). For each value that is returned, it is assigned to the `accumulator`. The output of your `reduce` method depends on the type of object your `accumulator` is and the initial value.

  **Documentation**: [MDN Docs - Array.prototype.reduce()](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/reduce)

1. **Provide code snippets showing how to use `superagent()` to fetch data from a URL and log the result.**
  - With normal Promise `.then()` syntax:
   ``` javascript
   const url = 'https://swapi.dev/api/people/';
   superagent.get(url).then(data => {
     const theCharacters = data.body.results;

     const reducedCharacters = theCharacters.reduce((obj, person) => {
       obj[person.name] = person.url;
       return obj;
     }, {});

     console.log(reducedCharacters);
   })
   .catch(err => { console.error(err); })
   ```

  - With `async` / `await` syntax:
    ``` javascript
    async function getStarWarsData(){
      const url = 'https://swapi.dev/api/people/';
      const results = await superagent.get(url);

      console.log('Star Wars results', results.body);
    }

    getStarWarsData();
    ```

1. **Explain promises as though you were mentoring a 301 level student**
  Promises are asynchronous methods that in essence, say: "Hey, JavaScript, I'm going to request some information from somewhere. After that information is retrieved, run this code." Running a `superagent.get()` call takes forever in the world of JavaScript, so it is necessary to use `.then()` or `await` as a way of saying "do not run this other stuff (the callback) until this data is retrieved."

1. **Are all callback functions considered to be asynchronous? Why or why not?

  No, in order for a callback to be asynchronous, it needs to be within an asynchronous function such as in **Question 3 above**. For example, the `array.map()` and `array.reduce()` methods both use a callback for each iteration on an array. This is synchronous, as JavaScript would go through each element one by one to return the result of the callback.

  - I used [this link from Byte Archer](https://bytearcher.com/articles/does-taking-a-callback-make-a-function-asynchronous/) to help me articulate how to answer this question.

### [Back to home](https://dcalhoun286.github.io/reading-notes/)
