# Reading Assignment 09

## HTML & CSS Textbook

### Chapter 7: Forms

Example:

```
<form action="http://www.exampple.com/login/"method="post">
  <label for="username">Username:</label>
  <input type="text" name="username" required="required" /><br />
  <label for="password"?Pasword:</label>
  <input type="submit" value="Submit" />
</form>
```

### Chapter 14: Lists, Tables, and Forms

- `list-style:`
- `empty-cells:`

#### Gaps Between Cells

- `border-spacing`, `border-collapse`

#### Summary

- Table cells can have different borders and spacing in different browsers, but there are properties you can use to control them and make them more consistent
- Forms are easier to use if the form controls are vertically aligned using CSS

## JavaScript Textbook

### Chapter 6: Events

#### Different Event Types

- pp. 246 - 247

#### How Events Trigger JavaScript Code

- **Event Handling**
  - SElect the element node(s) you want the script to respond to
  - Indicate which event on the selected node(s) will trigger the response.
  - State the code you want to run when the event occurs.
  - Select element: The element that users are interacting with is the text input where they enter the username.
  - Specify event: When users move ou of the text input, it loses focus, and the `blur` event fires on this element
  - Call code: when `blur` event occurs on the username input, it triggers `checkUsername()` (is the userName less than 5 characters?)

#### Traditional DOM Event Handlers

```
elementonevent = functionName;
```

```
function checkUsername() {
  var elMsg = document.getElementById('feedback');
  if (this.value.length < 5) {
    elMsg.textContent = 'Username must be 5 characters or more';
  } else {
    elMsg.textContent = '';
  }
}
```

#### Event Listeners

```
element.addEventListener('event',functionName,[Boolean]);
```

#### Supporting Older Versions of IE

pp. 258 - 259

#### Using Event Delegation

flow chart of sequence of events on pp 268 - 9

#### Mouse Events

- Mouse events are fired when mouse moves and when its buttons are clicked

#### Using HTML5 Events

```
function setup() {
  var textInput;
  textInput = document.getElementById('message');
  textInput.focus();
}

window.addEventListener('DOMContentLoaded', setup, false);

window.addEventListener('beforeunload', function(event){
  var message = 'You have changes that have not been saved...';
  (event || window.event).returnValue = message;
  return message;
}
```

#### Summary

- Events are the browser's way of indicating when somethign has happened (such as when a page has finished loading or a button has been clicked).
- Binding is the process of stating which event you are waiting to happen, and which element you are waiting for that event to happen upon.
- When an event occurs on an element, it can trigger a JavaScript function. When this function then changes the web page in some way, it feels interactive because it has responded to the user.
- You can use event delegation to monitor for events that happen on all of the children of an element.
- The most commonly used events are W3C DOM events, although there are others in the HTML5 specification as well as browser-specific events.

### [Back to home](https://dcalhoun286.github.io/reading-notes/)
