# Reading Assignment 11

## HTML & CSS Textbook

### Chapter 16: Images

#### Controlling Sizes of Images in CSS

- Control the size of images with CSS using the `width` and `height` properties

#### Aligning Images Using CSS

- it is common to add a margin to the image to ensure that the text does not touch their edges
- by default, images are inline elements. How to center images:
  - use the `display: block;` statement, then
    - on the containing element, use `text-align: center`, or
    - on the image itself, use the margin property and set the left and right values to auto
- techniques for modifying size and alignment of images can also be used with the HTML5 `<figure>` element

#### Background Images

- `background-image: url("the path or url of the img");`

#### Repeating Images

- `background-repeat`
  - `repeat`: background image is repeated boh horizontally and vertically (default if `background-repeat` property isn't used)
  - `repeat-x`: image is repeated horizontally only
  - `repeat-y`: image is repeated vertically only
  - `no-repeat`: image is only shown once
  - `fixed`: background image stays in the same position on the page
  - `scroll`: background image moves up and down as the user scrolls up and down the page

#### Background Position

If you only specify one value, the second value will default to center.

- `background-position`
  - `left top`
  - `left center`
  - `left bottom`
  - `center top`
  - `center center`
  - `center bottom`
  - `right top`
  - `right center`
  - `right bottom`
  
#### Contrast of Background Images

- If you want to overlay text on a background image, the image must be low contrast in order for the text to be legible.

### Chapter 19: Practical Information

#### Search Engine Optimization

- Page title
- URL/web address
- Headings
- Text
- Link text
- Image alt text
- Page descriptions (also, `<head>`, `<meta>`)

#### How to Identify Key Words and Phrases

- **Brainstorm**: key words: topics, products, services that would be on your website
- **Organize**: group like words together depending on sections/categories of your website
- **Research**: use keyword tools to add more relevant options to your lists
- **Compare**: The more pages with a certain term in the title, the more competition there is
- **Refine**: Pick which keywords to focus on
- **Map**: Pick 3-5 keywords or phrases that map to each page of your website and use these as the keywords for each page.

#### Ch 19 Summary

- Search engine optimization (SEO) helps visitors find your sites when using search engines.
- Analytics tools such as Google Analytics allow you to see how many people visit your site, how they find it, and what they do when they get here.
- To put your site on the web, you will need to obtain a domain name and web hosting.
- FTP programs allow you to transfer files from your local computer to your web server.
- Many companies provide platforms for blogging, email newsletters, e-commerce and other popular website tools (to save you writing them from scratch).

### [Back to home](https://dcalhoun286.github.io/reading-notes/)