# Reading Assignment 02

## HTML & CSS Textbook

### **Chapter 2: Text**

<!--- 
#### Summary (provided by textbook)
- **Structural markup:** HTML elements are used to describe the structure of the page (e.g. headings, subheadings, paragraphs).
- **Semantic markup:** They also provide information (e.g. where emphasis should be placed, the definition of any acronyms used, when given text is a quotation).
 --->

#### Headings

- HTML has six levels of headings, with ```<h1>``` being for main headings and ```<h2>``` through ```<h6>``` being for subheadings

#### Paragraphs

- ```<p>This is a paragraph.</p>```
- ```<p>This is another paragraph.</p>```

#### Bold and Italic

- ```<b>Content in bold</b>``` will appear like this: **bold**
- ```<i>Content in italic</i>``` will appear like this: *italic*

#### Superscript and Subscript

- Use ```<sup>``` to superscript characters: 1<sup>st</sup>
- Use ```<sub>``` to subscript characters: H<sub>3</sub>SO<sub>4</sub>

#### Line Breaks and Horizontal Rules

- How to use a line break inside the middle of a paragraph: ```<br />```
    - Example:

    ```
    <p>Roses are red<br />Violets are blue<br />Sugar is sweet<br />And so are you</p>
    ```

    **The result:**

    <p>Roses are red<br />Violets are blue<br />Sugar is sweet<br />And so are you</p>
- How to use a horizontal rule to break betwen different themes or topics: ```<hr />```
    - Example:

    ```<p>My favorite dog breeds<hr />My favorite plants</p>```

    ***The result:**

    <p>My favorite dog breeds<hr />My favorite plants</p>

#### Strong and Emphasis

- ```<strong>``` indicates content of strong importance (browsers by default show contents in ```<strong>``` in bold)
    - Example:

    ```
    <p><strong>Fire Department Advisory:</strong>There is a structure fire on the corner of 45th and Main. Please avoid the area and close windows if you're in a nearby building."</p>
    ```

- ```<em>``` puts emphasis on text, <em>like this</em>

#### Quotations
    
- ```<blockquote>``` is used for quotes that require their own paragraph
- ```<q>``` is for shorter quotes within a paragraph. <strong>IE browsers disregard this element.</strong>

#### Abbreviations and Acronyms

- ```<abbr>``` is used for both abbreviations and acronyms in HTML5:

```
<p><abbr title="American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals>ASPCA</abbr> cares about animals.</p>
```

#### Citations and Definitions

- Content inside ```<cite>``` is the source you're referencing
- ```<dfn>``` is for explaining new concepts/terms. Some browsers do not display content inside ```<dfn>``` differently.

#### Author Details

- ```<address>``` contains contact details for the author of the page. Browsers usually display this content in italics

#### Changes to Content

- ```<del>``` puts a line through content like <del>this</del>
- ```<s>``` is used for things that are no longer accurate or relevant but shouldn't be deleted. The content inside ```<s>``` will also have a line through it
- ```<ins>``` shows content that has been inserted, which will be underlined

### **Chapter 10: Introducing CSS**

#### Understanding CSS

CSS is used to control the design and presentation of web pages.

- In a way, every element is its own box
- Applying a CSS rule to an element controls that element and anything in it
    Example:

    ```
    p {
        background-color: rgb(255, 255, 0);
    }
    ```

    - the selector ```p``` indicates that I want to control all ```<p>``` elements
    - everything inside the curly braces is a declaration
    - Within that declaration, the 1<sup>st</sup> part is the **property** I want to control: ```background-color:```, and the 2<sup>nd</sup> is called the **value**: ```rgb(255, 255, 0);```, which is yellow

#### Using External Style Sheets

It is considered best practice to keep as much CSS as possible in a separate file and link that file to your HTML document using ```<link>``` in the ```<head>``` of the document

## JavaScript Textbook

### **Chapter 2: Basic JavaScript Instructions**

####

- Statements are instructions; each starts on a new line and end in a semi-colon, <strong>unless</strong>:
    - The statement is a **code block**. Code blocks are surrounded by curly braces and aren't ended with a semicolon
- to make comments to explain code: 

```// COMMENT ON A SINGLE LINE ```

```
/* If your comment takes up multiple lines,
this is how you write it. */
```

#### Data Types examples

- **Numeric:** Numbers. Example: ```49.27```

- **String** Example: ```'Content within a pair of quotes'```

- **Boolean**: ```true``` or ```false```

#### Arrays

Arrays store a list of values. Example:

```
var cities = ['Seattle', 'Chicago', 'Scottsdale'];
```

In the above example to create an array, I declared a variable ```cities``` and assigned a list of three cities to that variable

#### Expressions

- Expressions that aassign a value to a variable
- Expressions that use two or more values to return a single value, such as concatenation, and performing mathematical operations

#### Operators

- **Assignment operators** assign a value to a varialbe
- **Arithmetic operators** perform math
- **String operators** combine, or concatenate, strings
- **Comparison operators** compare two values and return a ```boolean```
-  **Logical operators** combine expressions and return a ```boolean```

### **Chapter 4: Decisions and Loops pp 145 - 162 **

#### Conditional Statements

- if the condition returns ```true```, the code block will be executed

#### Comparison Operators

- ```==```: **Is equal to** - Are the two values the same?
- ```!=```: **Is not equal to** - Are the two values <em>not</em> the same?
- ```===```: **Strict equal to** - Are the two values both the same data type <strong>and</strong> the same value?
- ```!==```: **Strict not equal to** - Are the two values different both of value and of data type?
- ```>```: **Greater than** - Is the number on the left greater than the number on the right?
- ```<```: **Less than** - Is the number on the left less than the number on the right?
- ```>=```: **Greater than or equal to** - Is the number on the left greater than or equal to the number on the right?
- ```<=```: **Less than or equal to** - Is the number on the left less than or equal to the number on the right?

#### Logical Operators

- ```&&``` **Logical and** - If both expressions evaluate to ```true``` then the expression returns ```true```
- ```||``` **Logical or** - If either expression evaluates to ```true```, then the expression returns ```true```
- ```!``` **Logical not** - Inverts a single Boolean value: ```!(3 > 84)``` returns ```true```

#### If Else Statements

Example:

```
if (grade < 90) {
    alert('Sorry, you didn't pass.');
} else {
    alert('Congrats! You get to move on to the next course.');
}
```

If the condition returns ```true```, the 1<sup>st</sup> block of code will be run. If the condition returns ```false```, the 2<sup>nd</sup> block of code will be run.

#### Switch Statements

- You have a default option that is run if none of the cases match.
- If a match is found, that code is run; then the ```break;``` statement stops the rest of the switch statement running.

### [Back to home](https://dcalhoun286.github.io/reading-notes/)